# 1. Introduction


This document describes the proposed changes for L3 Multihoming support for Intel PAC N3000 boards with full hardware flow offload mode.


# 2. Problem statement


Multihoming feature requires more than one physical interface configured and used by vRouter and each of the interfaces connected to different L3 underlay networks.
With hardware flow offload, underlay ecmp hardware flows must have specified hardware IDs of physical ports selected by vRouter.


# 3. Proposed solution


Together with vdev configuration a list of MAC addresses are passed through vRouter parameters to point out which interfaces will take part in the multihoming function.
To be able to recognize between offloaded bonding and multihoming feature an additional 'l3mh' optional parameter is introduced for the '--enable_n3k' vRouter flag. When the '--enable_n3k l3mh' is used,
vRouter-N3000 offload module will configure the physical port representors  independently, but use them simultaneously during runtime.


## 3.1 Alternatives considered
N/A


## 3.2 API schema changes


No expected changes to APIs.




## 3.3 User workflow impact


Starting vRouter manually through CLI a user   has to specify MAC addresses of physical interfaces when they ought to use the multihoming feature with N3000 offloading support..
Otherwise the MACs are filled automatically during the automatic deployment process.


## 3.4 UI changes


None (no expected changes to UI)


## 3.5 Notification impact


None (no expected changes to notification)




# 4. Implementation


Implementation follows tf-specs/R2105/l3mh.md recommendation.
Based on flow_underlay_ecmp_index a nexthop interface from the offloaded flow will be validated and written into N3000 hardware tables.






## 4.1 TF vRouter command line arguments


'vdev' argument is able to pass a MAC address list of interfaces used for multihoming.
`--vdev net_n3k0,mgmt=0000:1d:00.0,pf=0000:1d:00.2,vfs=[1,2,3,4,5,6,7],mac=[00:11:22:33:44:55,55:44:33:22:11:00]`'
'enable_n3k' argument got `l3mh` parameter to indicate that all external interfaces will take part into multihoming transfer.


# 5. Performance and scaling impact


None (no expected changes to performance nor to scaling as all new functionality is optionaland concerns deployment stage)
Performance gain is expected when vRouter is configured with N3000 hardware offload and multihoming feature enabled.


# 6. Upgrade


N/A




# 7. Deprecations


None




# 8. Dependencies


Provided functionality extends vRouter-N3000 GOM (described in R2105/n3000 spec) capabilities.
Properly initialized GOM is the only dependency.


# 9. Security Considerations


None




# 10. Testing


Test deployment of RHOSP 16.2 with TF with modifications for L3MH N3000 support
Testing will be done with and without Intel PAC N3000 card offload support turn on for both L3MH and default configuration (LACP) cases. No regression from a functional perspective should be observed.
During testing of L3MH configuration with the N3000 support turned on, flows referencing both fabric interfaces should be properly installed in the hardware.




# 11. Documentation Impact


Documentation describing new parameters and steps required to enable platform (RHOSP16 + TF) deployment with support for PAC N3000 board which utilizes full hardware flow offload mode.


# 12. References


N/A